Astronomer Release and Maintenance Policy (#492)
astronomer/docs: enterprise/v0.25/10_resources/05_release-maintenance-policy.md

---
title: "Astronomer Release and Maintenance Policy"
navTitle: "Release and Maintenance Policy"
description: "Astronomer's release and maintenance policy for all published software, including Astronomer Certified, Astronomer Enterprise, and the Astronomer CLI."
---

## Overview

Astronomer maintains a variety of policies that drives the naming, release cadence, and support commitments associated with all published software.

This document offers guidelines on how Astronomer software is versionined, maintained, and supported. It includes a description of:

- Release channels
- Astronomer versioning
- Maintenance and support

For information on the latest Astronomer Enterprise releases, see [release notes](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/enterprise/v0.25/resources/release-notes).

## Release Channels

> To meet the unique needs of different operating environments, we offer all Astronomer customers two release channels:

Author: Definitely fair, though I think the field team has standardized around the term `channel` and I don't think I can swing proposing an alternative 😬 Let's figure out how to make the explanation use of this less confusing.

- Stable
- Long-term Support (LTS)

> The difference between the two channels is rooted in how long a corresponding release is supported by the Astronomer team as well as differing backport policies for bug and security fixes.

Author: Good call - I can prob add a sentence here that says "While LTS and stable release channel versions are functionally equivalent, LTS releases undergo additional testing by our team and are published with a distinguished level of confidence with regards to stability and production-readiness. Something like that?

> The difference between the two channels is rooted in how long a corresponding release is supported by the Astronomer team as well as differing backport policies for bug and security fixes.

Reviewer: That's great - as long as we set the expectation that the level of content between channels can be functionally equivalent, I think that the time between releases/ testing regimen speaks for itself.

> For customers looking to access Astronomer's newest features on an incremental basis, we recommend following the stable release channel and upgrading to new versions as soon as they are made generally available. Stable releases are issued roughly once per month for Astronomer Enterprise and the Astronomer CLI. New versions of Astronomer Certified are issued regularly and depend on Apache Airflow's community release schedule.

Author: Yea good call - I think we can remove the second sentence here on release cadence and throw it somewhere in another section

For customers looking for increased functional stability, we offer a long-term support (LTS) release channel. An LTS release will generally be issued every 12 months.

As an Astronomer customer, you may upgrade to a supported release in either channel at any time.

> **Note:** Release channels apply to Astronomer Enterprise and Astronomer Certified versions. We do not currenty support a long-term support channel for the Astronomer CLI.

### Backport Policy for Bug and Security Fixes

> If a major stability bug is identified by our team, a fix will be backported to all long-term support versions and only the latest stable version. For users on a stable version that is not latest, our team will recommend that you upgrade. Major issues in this category may result in significant delays in task scheduling as well as potential data loss.

Author: Not sure - tbh might have to be intentionally ambiguous here

> If a major security issue is identified, a fix will be backported and made available as a new patch version for _all_ supported stable and long-term support releases. Major issues in this category are classified by a combination of impact and exploitability.

Author: Per-case, I think again might have to be intentionally ambiguous here

In rare instances, release managers may make an exception and backport a bug or security fix to a release that is beyond the commitment stated above. To submit a request for consideration, please reach out to your customer success manager.

## Astronomer Software Versioning

Astronomer follows [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) for all published software. This means that we leverage Major, Minor, and Patch releases across our product in the format of `major.minor.patch`. In the case of Astronomer Certified, we also support hotfix releases.

- **Major** versions are released for significant feature additions, including backward-incompatible changes to an API or DAG specification.
- **Minor** versions are released for functional changes, including backward-compatible changes to an API or DAG specification.
- **Patch** versions are released for bug and security fixes that resolve incorrect behavior.
- **Hotfix** versions are available for Astronomer Certified and may include bug or security fixes not yet available in community releases of Apache Airflow.

For Astronomer Certified `2.1.3-5`, for example:

- Major = `2.`
- Minor = `1.`
- Patch = `.3`
- Hotfix = `-5`

> It is considered safe to upgrade to minor and patch versions within a major version. Upgrade guidance for major and LTS versions is provided with each release.

Author: We do! E.g. "Upgrade to Airflow 2.0"

> It is considered safe to upgrade to minor and patch versions within a major version. Upgrade guidance for major and LTS versions is provided with each release.

Reviewer: I moved the AC one to match this structure, since we mention LTS in this section.

---

> title: "Astronomer Release and Maintenance Policy"
> navTitle: "Release and Maintenance Policy"
> description: "Astronomer's release and maintenance policy for Astronomer Enterprise."

Author: ```suggestion
title: "Astronomer Release and Lifecycle Policy"
navTitle: "Release and Lifecycle Policy"
description: "Astronomer's release and lifecycle policy for Astronomer Enterprise."
```

---

## Overview

> Astronomer maintains a variety of policies that drives the naming, release cadence, and maintenance commitments associated with all published software.

Author: ```suggestion
Astronomer supports a variety of policies that drives the naming, release cadence, and maintenance commitments associated with all published software.
```

> This document offers guidelines on how Astronomer Enterprise is versioned and maintained. It includes a description of:

Author: ```suggestion
This document offers guidelines on the version lifecycle of Astronomer Enterprise. It includes a description of:
```

If a major security issue is identified, a fix will be backported and made available as a new patch version for _all_ supported stable and LTS releases. Major issues in this category are classified by a combination of impact and exploitability.

In rare instances, the Astronomer team may make an exception and backport a bug or security fix to a release that is beyond the commitment stated above. To submit a request for consideration, please reach out to your customer success manager.

## Astronomer Enterprise Versioning

Astronomer follows [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) for all published software. This means that we use Major, Minor, and Patch releases across our product in the format of `major.minor.patch`.

- **Major** versions are released for significant feature additions, including backward-incompatible changes to an API or DAG specification.
- **Minor** versions are released for functional changes, including backward-compatible changes to an API or DAG specification.
- **Patch** versions are released for bug and security fixes that resolve incorrect behavior.

> It is considered safe to upgrade to minor and patch versions within a major version. Upgrade guidance for major and LTS versions is provided with each release.

Author: Bring up this section since it's referenced in backport section?

### Version Maintenance Policy

The maintenance period for an Astronomer Enterprise version depends on its release channel:

| Release Channel | Frequency of Releases | Maintenance Duration |
| --------------- | --------------------- | -------------------- |
| Stable          | Quarterly             | 6 Months             |
| LTS             | Yearly                | 12 Months            |

> For each `major.minor` pair, only the latest patch is supported and available for download. For example, Astronomer Enterprise 0.25.5 would not be maintained as soon as 0.25.6 is released

Author: ```suggestion
For each `major.minor` pair, only the latest patch is supported at any given time.
```

The for example details I think cover it here (we don't have equivalent for AC so added more to this sentence there)

---
title: "Astronomer Release and Maintenance Policy"
navTitle: "Release and Maintenance Policy"
description: "Astronomer's release and maintenance policy for Astronomer Enterprise."
---

## Overview

Astronomer maintains a variety of policies that drives the naming, release cadence, and support commitments associated with all published software.

> This document offers guidelines on how Astronomer software is versioned, maintained, and supported. It includes a description of:

Author: ```suggestion
This document offers guidelines on how Astronomer Enterprise is versioned, maintained, and supported. It includes a description of:
```

- Release channels
- Astronomer versioning
- Maintenance and support

For information on the latest Astronomer Enterprise releases, see [release notes](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/enterprise/v0.25/resources/release-notes).

> For versioning and support policies specifically for Astronomer Certified, see the Certified [Versioning and Support Policy](/docs/enterprise/v0.25/astronomer-certified/support-policy).

Author: ```suggestion
For our release and maintenance policy for Astronomer Certified, see the Certified [Versioning and Support Policy](/docs/enterprise/v0.25/astronomer-certified/support-policy).
```

## Release Channels

To meet the unique needs of different operating environments, we offer all Astronomer customers two release channels:

> - Stable: Includes the latest Astronomer and Airflow features
> - Long-term Support (LTS): Includes long-term testing, stability, and support for a core set of features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Stable:** Includes the latest Astronomer and Airflow features
- **Long-term Support (LTS):** Includes long-term testing, stability, and support for a core set of features
```

For customers looking to access Astronomer's newest features on an incremental basis, we recommend following the stable release channel and upgrading to new versions as soon as they are made generally available. Stable releases are issued roughly once per month for Astronomer Enterprise and the Astronomer CLI.

> For customers looking for increased functional stability, we offer a long-term support (LTS) release channel. An LTS release will generally be issued every 12 months.

Author: ```suggestion
For customers looking for the highest level of stability, we recommend upgrading only to LTS versions as they're made available. Release channels are not binding, so you are free to upgrade to any available version of Astronomer Enterprise at any time.
```

> As an Astronomer customer, you may upgrade to a supported release in either channel at any time.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> **Note:** Release channels apply to Astronomer Enterprise and Astronomer Certified versions. We do not currently support a long-term support channel for the Astronomer CLI.

### Backport Policy for Bug and Security Fixes

If a major stability bug is identified by our team, a fix will be backported to all long-term support versions and only the latest stable version. For users on a stable version that is not latest, our team will recommend that you upgrade. Major issues in this category may result in significant delays in task scheduling as well as potential data loss.

If a major security issue is identified, a fix will be backported and made available as a new patch version for _all_ supported stable and long-term support releases. Major issues in this category are classified by a combination of impact and exploitability.

In rare instances, release managers may make an exception and backport a bug or security fix to a release that is beyond the commitment stated above. To submit a request for consideration, please reach out to your customer success manager.

> ## Astronomer Software Versioning

Author: ```suggestion
## Astronomer Enterprise Versioning
```

Astronomer follows [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) for all published software. This means that we leverage Major, Minor, and Patch releases across our product in the format of `major.minor.patch`.

- **Major** versions are released for significant feature additions, including backward-incompatible changes to an API or DAG specification.
- **Minor** versions are released for functional changes, including backward-compatible changes to an API or DAG specification.
- **Patch** versions are released for bug and security fixes that resolve incorrect behavior.

It is considered safe to upgrade to minor and patch versions within a major version. Upgrade guidance for major and LTS versions is provided with each release.

> ### Version Support Policy

Author: ```suggestion
### Version Maintenance Policy
```

> The maintenance period for an Astronomer version depends on the Product offering and the release channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The maintenance period for an Astronomer Enterprise version depends on its release channel:
```

| Release Channel | Frequency of Releases | Maintenance Duration |
| --------------- | --------------------- | -------------------- |

> | Stable          | Monthly               | 6 Months             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Stable          | Quarterly               | 6 Months             |
```

| LTS             | Yearly                | 12 Months            |

> Version maintenance is defined for each `major.minor` pair. Since patch versions do not introduce backwards-incompatible changes, the latest patch is assumed.

Author: Add clarification here -

"For each major.minor pair, only the latest patch is supported and available for download. In other words, Astronomer Enterprise 0.25.5 would not be supported as soon as 0.25.6 is released."

- Support for Astronomer Enterprise v0.26 would end 6 months later in April 2022.
- If a patch version for v0.26 came out in December 2021 (e.g. `v0.26.2`), it would not affect the supported time period. Support for v0.26 would still end in April 2022.
- If a major bug was identified in v0.26, a fix would be backported by the Astronomer team and released as a patch to v0.26 as long as it remained the latest stable release.
- If Astronomer Enterprise v0.27 came out as a new stable release, bug fixes would no longer be backported to Astronomer v0.26 and customers would be encouraged to upgrade.
- If a major security issue was identified in v0.26, a fix would be backported and released as a patch at any time during its 6 month support period. If v0.27 came out and succeeded v0.26 as the latest stable version of Astronomer Enterprise, a security fix would still be backported to v0.26.

If you contact [Astronomer Support](https://support.astronomer.io) about an issue you are experiencing while running an unsupported version, our team will invite you to upgrade as an initial mitigation step.

### End of Maintenance

> Maintenance is discontinued the last day of the month for a given version. For example, if a version of Astronomer Enterprise were supported between January - June of a given year, that version would be maintained by Astronomer until the last day of June.

Reviewer: Maybe repeat the patch information in this section?

Astronomer versions that have reached end of maintenance will no longer be available to select during the Airflow Deployment creation process via the Astronomer UI or CLI.

## Enterprise Support Schedule

The following table contains the exact support timeline for each published version of Astronomer Enterprise. These timelines are based on the LTS and Stable release channel support policies.

> | AC Version | Release Date     | Release Channel | Support Period | End-of-Support Date |

Reviewer: Timelines for Enterprise releases didn't quite match  up with what was in Notion, so I would double check this and update the table as needed. Should we list stable versions here (which I assume is all other patch versions)?

> | AC Version | Release Date     | Release Channel | Support Period | End-of-Support Date |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Enterprise Version | Release Date     | Release Channel | Support Period | End-of-Support Date |
```

| ---------- | ---------------- | --------------- | -------------- | ------------------- |

> | 0.25.1     | June 29, 2020    | LTS             | 12 months      | June 2021           |
> | 0.23.9     | January 20, 2021 | LTS             | 12 months      | November 2021       |
> | 0.25.1     | May 11, 2021     | LTS             | 12 months      | May 2022            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 0.25     | June 29, 2020    | LTS             | 12 months      | June 2021           |
| 0.23     | January 20, 2021 | LTS             | 12 months      | November 2021       |
| 0.25     | May 11, 2021     | LTS             | 12 months      | May 2022            |
```

> > **Note:** To ease the impact of this updated policy, Astronomer will provide extended maintenance, backporting major security fixes for these versions.

Reviewer: Was thinking we could give an exact support window, say when we updated the policy, and move this up to the overview section?
